Add REST API with Postgres piece (#59)
thedataquarry/rustinpieces: pieces/rest_api_postgres/README.md

# REST API with PostgreSQL

A REST API that interacts with PostgreSQL.

## Goal

In this piece, we will use `fastapi` + `asyncpg` packages in Python and the `axum` + `sqlx` crates
in Rust to build a REST API.

## Python Setup

Install the dependencies in a virtual environment via `requirements.txt`.

```sh
# First time setup
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt

# for subsequent runs, simply activate the environment
source venv/bin/activate
```

# Start the database

From the `pieces/rest_api_postgres` directory start the database with docker compose

```sh
docker compose up
```

# Start the development server

The server can be started either with `Make` or manually.

```sh
# With Make
make dev

# Manually

> uvicorn app.main:app --reload

Author: The default is 8000, but wouldn't hurt to add it and be explicit.

```

FastAPI automatically generates interactive OpenAPI documentation. We can use this to test/interact

> with our API. To view the documentation go to `http://127.0.0.1/docs`, then from here expeand the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with our API. To view the documentation go to `http://127.0.0.1/docs`, then from here expand the
```

> section you want to try and clieck the `Try it out` button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
section you want to try and click the **Try it out** button.
```

```sh
# Add a book
make add-book BOOK='{"title": "Some Title", "authorFirstName": "FirstName", "authorLastName": "LastName", "bookStatus": "Read", "dateAdded": "2024-01-30T15:47:01Z", "dateRead": null, "rating": 1}'

# Delete a book
make delete-book BOOK_ID=1

# Get a book
make get-book BOOK_ID=1

# Get all books
make get-books

# Update a book
make update-book BOOK='{"id": 2, "title": "New Title", "authorFirstName": "FirstName", "authorLastName": "LastName", "bookStatus": "Read", "dateAdded": "2024-01-30T15:47:01Z", "dateRead": null, "rating": 1}'
```

# Takeaways

With FastAPI we are using `uvicorn` the `--reload` flag to auto-restart the server when changes are
made. In Rust we get the equivalent functionality by using `cargo-watch`. While in this example we are
using `cargo-watch` to restart the webserver, `cargo-watch` is not specific to web servers and can
be used for any Rust program that you want to re-run when changes are saved.

One nice feature of FastAPI is OpenAPI documenation is automatically generated for routes. This
makes it very easy to test and document the API. Because Axum does not provide this same functionality

> a program such as [postman](https://www.postman.com/) with test routes manually created is needed to

Author: I've been looking for something like this, and didn't find it. Glad you pointed it out!

> serve this pourpose. Additionally documentation would still need to be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
serve this purpose. Additionally documentation would still need to be created.
```

In the tests you may have noticed that in Python we clear the database tables between each test, but

> we don't do this in Rust. The reason for this is by default pytest runs one test at a time while

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we don't do this in Rust. The reason for this is by default, `pytest` runs the tests sequentially, while
```

> the default in Rust is to run tests in parallel. Because of this if we were to clear the tables

Author: Rust tests are equivalent to running pytest with the xdist plugin. So they run across cores even if the code isn't async. You would still call this asynchronous rather than parallel?

Weird that you are getting that error with tests, it should be impossible. The titles are set with uuids so they should never be the same. I'll double check and make sure I didn't miss one somewhere.

> the default in Rust is to run tests in parallel. Because of this if we were to clear the tables

Reviewer: You're right, that was my misconception. The [book](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch11-02-running-tests.html#running-tests-in-parallel-or-consecutively) says that the tests run in parallel (no mention of async). I'll remove those suggestions.
